'\" <<ital-is-var>>
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TH COREDB 6 "Go-GMA 5.21.0" 10-Jun-2024 "Games" \" @@mp@@
.SH NAME
coredb \- import/export entries in the GMA core SRD database
.SH SYNOPSIS
'\" <<usage>>
.LP
(If using the full GMA core tool suite)
.LP
.na
.B gma
.B go
.B coredb
[options as described below...]
.ad
.LP
(Otherwise)
.LP
.na
.B coredb
.B \-h
.LP
.B coredb
.B \-help
.LP
.B coredb
.RB [ \-D 
.IR flags ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-f
.RI [\fB!\fP] regexp]
.RB [ \-I ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-preferences
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-srd ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR list ]
.LP
.B coredb
.RB [ \-debug 
.IR flags ]
.RB [ \-export
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-filter
.RI [\fB!\fP] regexp]
.RB [ \-ignore\-case ]
.RB [ \-import
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-log
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-preferences
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-srd ]
.RB [ \-type
.IR list ]
.ad
'\" <</usage>>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Coredb
is used for maintenance of the core (SRD) database. Once the
initial load of community-published SRD data is performed
via
.B gma
.BR initdb ,
you will probably add a number of your own entries to the database
for your own campaign. These are known as \*(lqlocal\*(rq entries,
while the ones that are in the core game's SRD content which are
licensed to be freely used (according to the applicable license)
are known as \*(lqSRD\*(rq entries.
.LP
If run with the
.B \-export
option,
.B coredb
will export the local entries from your core database to the specified
output file, encoded in JSON.
If run with the
.B \-import
option, the opposite is done:
the JSON-encoded file is read, and its contents added to the core database.
If this file's contents match the name or ID (as appropriate) of an existing
entry, that entry is updated in-place in the database.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The command-line options described below have a long form
(e.g.,
.BR \-log )
and a short form
(e.g.,
.BR \-l )
which are equivalent. In either case, the option may be
introduced with either one or two hyphens (e.g.,
.B \-log
or
.BR \-\-log ).
Options which take parameter values may have the value separated
from the option name by a space or an equals sign (e.g.,
.BI \-log= path
or
.BR "\-log \fIpath\fP" ), 
except for boolean flags which may be given
alone (e.g.,
.BR \-I )
to indicate that the option is set to \*(lqtrue\*(rq or may be given
an explicit value which must be attached to the option with an
equals sign (e.g.,
.B \-I=true
or
.BR \-I=false ).
.LP
You 
'\" <</ital-is-var>>
.I "may not"
'\" <<ital-is-var>>
combine multiple single-letter options into a single composite
argument, (e.g., the options
.B \-I
and
.B \-h
would need to be entered as two separate options, not as
.BR \-Ih ).
'\" <<list>>
.TP 
.BI "\-D\fR, \fP\-debug " flags
This adds debugging messages to
.BR coredb "'s"
output. The
.I flags
value is a comma-separated list of debug flag names, which
may be any of the following:
.RS
'\" <<desc>>
.TP 10
.B all
Enable all possible debugging flags.
.TP
.B none
If you want to explicitly disable debugging, you can specify
.B none
for the
.I flags
value to override the previous flag list and effectively disable
debugging.
If
.B none
appears in a comma-separated flag list, it cancels all the
previously-set flags, but any other flag names which occur after
it will be set.
.TP
.B misc
Show miscellaneous debugging messages.
.TP
.B queries
Show SQL queries made to the database.
.RE
'\" <</>>
.TP
.BI "\-e\fR, \fP\-export " file
Export the local entries from the database to the named
JSON-encoded
.IR file .
.TP
.BI "\-f\fR, \fP\-filter \fR[\fP!\fR]\fP" regexp
When importing or exporting, only include entries matching the regular
expression
.IR regexp .
If
.I regexp
begins with a
.RB \*(lq ! \*(rq
character, only entries which do
'\" <</ital-is-var>>
.I not
'\" <<ital-is-var>>
match the expression are included.
.RS
.LP
The
.I regexp
is matched against the
.B Code
and
.B Name
fields of the entries in question. If either matches, then
the entry is included (or excluded). For language entries,
the
.B Language
field is checked instead.
For monsters in the bestiary, the
.B Code
and
.B Species
fields are checked.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-I , " \-ignore\-case"
Pattern matching via the
.B \-filter
option should be done irrespective of case.
.TP
.BI "\-i\fR, \fP\-import " file
Read the contents of the JSON-encoded
.IR file ,
importing them to the database.
.TP
.BI "\-l\fR, \fP\-log " file
Directs log messages (including any debugging output) to
the named
.I file
instead of the standard output. You may explicitly specify
the standard output by using a single hyphen as the file name
(e.g.,
.RB \*(lq \-log=\- \*(rq).
.TP
.BI "\-preferences " file
Normally,
.B coredb
reads the default GMA preferences file to obtain the pathname of
the core database file. This option specifies an alternative
preferences file from which to get that pathname.
.TP
.B \-srd
Instead of exporting only the local entries and assuming imported entries are local,
export SRD entries and assume imported entries are SRD.
.TP
.BI "\-t\fR, \fP\-type " list
Entries exported will include only database entries of the
specified type(s). When importing, any records in the import file
which are not of the specified type(s) are skipped over.
The
.I list
value is a comma-separated list of type names, which
may be any of the following:
.RS
'\" <<desc>>
.TP 12
.B all
All entry types (the default).
.TP
.B none
No types.
If
.B none
appears in a comma-separated type list, it cancels all the
previously-set types, but any other type names which occur after
it will be set.
.TP
.B bestiary
Monster entries. (The names
.BR creature [ s ]
and
.BR monster [ s ]
are also recognized.)
.TP
.BR class [ es ]
Character class entries.
.TP
.BR feat [ s ]
Feats.
.TP
.BR language [ s ]
Languages.
.TP
.BR skill [ s ]
Skills.
.TP
.BR spell [ s ]
Spells.
.TP
.BR weapon [ s ]
Weapons.
.RE
'\" <</>>
'\" <</>>
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.LP
The JSON file used for exporting and importing operations is as documented for the
.B util.CoreImport
function of the Go-GMA project (see
'\" <</ital-is-var>>
'\" <<TeX>>
'\" \href{https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/MadScienceZone/go-gma/v5/util\#CoreImport}{pkg.go.dev/github.com/MadScienceZone/go-gma/v5/util\#CoreImport}
.IR https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/MadScienceZone/go-gma/v5/util#CoreImport ).
'\" <</TeX>>
Each of the data structures marshalled into JSON for monsters, weapons, etc., are
documented on the same page at that URL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR gma (6),
.BR importdb (6),
.BR initdb (6).
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH HISTORY
.LP
The core database appeared in GMA Core version 7.0; this utility
appeared in go-gma version 5.7.0.
.SH BUGS
.SH COPYRIGHT
Part of the GMA software suite, copyright \(co 1992\-2024 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under BSD-3-Clause License. \"@m(c)@