'\" <<ital-is-var>>
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TH GMA-GO-PUSH-IMAGES 6 "Go-GMA 5.32.1" 10-Dec-2025 "Games" \" @@mp@@
.SH NAME
gma go push-images \- advertise images and update client caches
.SH SYNOPSIS
'\" <<usage>>
.LP
(If using the full GMA core tool suite)
.LP
.na
.B gma
.B go
.B push-images
[options as described below...]
.ad
.LP
(Otherwise)
.LP
.na
.B push-images
.B \-h
.LP
.B push-images
.B \-help
.LP
.B push-images
.RB [ \-D ]
.RB [ \-H
.IR host ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR logfile ]
.RB [ \-list\-profiles ]
.RB [ \-P
.IR password ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR port ]
.RB [ \-S
.IR profile ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR user ]
.IR mapfile ...
.LP
.B push-images
.RB [ \-debug ]
.RB [ \-host
.IR host ]
.RB [ \-list\-profiles ]
.RB [ \-log
.IR logfile ]
.RB [ \-password
.IR password ]
.RB [ \-port
.IR port ]
.RB [ \-preferences
.IR configfile ]
.RB [ \-select
.IR profile ]
.RB [ \-username
.IR user ]
.IR mapfile ...
.ad
'\" <</usage>>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Push-images
provides a way to push a set of server-stored map images out to
all the connected clients so that they will become aware of the
location of where the images may be found.
.LP
Each named
.I mapfile
is read for image definition records
.RB ( IMG
types). For each one encountered, that image definition is sent
to the server, which will add it to its internal database of
known images and notes the server location where the graphic file
may be downloaded. The server will then relay this information to
all clients currently connected to it.
Those clients will then download the files to their local
disk caches so they are prepared to use the files on their
map displays.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The command-line options described below have a long form
(e.g.,
.BR \-port )
and a short form
(e.g.,
.BR \-p )
which are equivalent. In either case, the option may be
introduced with either one or two hyphens (e.g.,
.B \-port
or
.BR \-\-port ).
Options which take parameter values may have the value separated
from the option name by a space or an equals sign (e.g.,
.B \-port=2323
or
.BR "\-port 2323" ), 
except for boolean flags which may be given
alone (e.g.,
.BR \-m )
to indicate that the option is set to \*(lqtrue\*(rq or may be given
an explicit value which must be attached to the option with an
equals sign (e.g.,
.B \-m=true
or
.BR \-m=false ).
.LP
You 
'\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "may not"
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
combine multiple single-letter options into a single composite
argument, (e.g., the options
.B \-r
and
.B \-m
would need to be entered as two separate options, not as
.BR \-rm ).
.LP
Any of these options will override the settings read from
.BR preferences.json .
'\" <<list>>
.TP
.BI "\-D\fR, \fP\-debug " flags
This adds debugging messages to
.BR push-image "'s"
output. The
.I flags
value is a comma-separated list of debug flag names, which
may be any of the following:
.RS
'\" <<desc>>
.TP 10
.B all
Enable all possible debugging flags.
.TP
.B none
If you want to explicitly disable debugging (e.g., if debugging
is enabled in your configuration file but you want to turn it off
via command-line option), you can specify
.B none
for the
.I flags
value to override the previous flag list and effectively disable
debugging.
If
.B none
appears in a comma-separated flag list, it cancels all the
previously-set flags, but any other flag names which occur after
it will be set.
.TP
.B auth
Authentication operations
.TP
.B binary
When printing certain values such as data transmitted over the 
network, include a hex dump of the actual binary data in addition
to other debugging messages.
.TP
.B events
Show background events such as expiring timers and received 
process signals.
.TP
.B i/o
Show input/output operations used to get data in and out of the
client.
.TP
.B messages
Show the server messages sent and received.
.TP
.B misc
Show miscellaneous debugging messages
.RE
'\" <</>>
.TP
.BI "\-H\fR, \fP\-host " host
Specifies the server's hostname.
.TP
.BI "\-l\fR, \fP\-log " file
Directs log messages (including any debugging output) to
the named
.I file
instead of the standard output. You may explicitly specify
the standard output by using a single hyphen as the file name
(e.g.,
.RB \*(lq \-log=\- \*(rq).
.TP
.B \-list\-profiles
Prints a list of all the profiles defined in the mapper preferences
and exits.
.TP
.BI "\-P\fR, \fP\-password " password
If the server has authentication enabled, this specifies the
password to be sent to log in. If the GM password is given,
then the
.B push-images
user will have GM privileges on the server; otherwise normal
player privileges will be granted, as with any client.
.TP
.BI "\-p\fR, \fP\-port " port
Specifies the server's TCP port number. The GMA map server's default port, 2323, will be assumed by default.
.TP
.BI "\-preferences " configfile
Load preferences from the named JSON file instead of the default
.BR ~/.gma/mapper/preferences.json .
.TP
.BI "\-S\fR, \fP\-select " profile
Use the named
.I profile
from the mapper preferences for the connection information instead
of the one currently designated as the mapper's current profile.
.TP
.BI "\-u\fR, \fP\-username " user
This specifies the user name by which the server will know you.
If you log in with the GM credentials, the server will assign
you the name
.RB \*(lq GM \*(rq
regardless of what you request here. If you don't use the GM
credentials, you may not ask for the name
.RB \*(lq GM \*(rq.
If you do not specify a username, it will default to your local
system username if possible.
'\" <</>>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR gma (6),
.BR gma-mapper (5),
.BR gma-mapper (6).
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH BUGS
.SH COPYRIGHT
Part of the GMA software suite, copyright \(co 1992\-2025 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under BSD-3-Clause License. \"@m(c)@
