.\" vim:set syntax=nroff:
'\" <<ital-is-var>>
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TH GMA-GO-UPLOAD-PRESETS 6 "Go-GMA 5.32.2" 23-Jan-2026 "Games" \" @@mp@@
.SH NAME
gma go upload-presets \- Upload die-roll presets to a GMA server
.SH SYNOPSIS
'\" <<usage>>
.LP
(If using the full GMA core tool suite)
.LP
.na
.B gma
.B go
.B upload\-presets
.RI [ args
\&...]
.ad
.LP
(Otherwise)
.LP
.na
.B upload\-presets
.B \-endpoint
.RI [ hostname ]\fB:\fP port
.RB [ \-for
.IR username ]
.RB [ \-pass
.IR password ]
.RB [ \-replace ]
.RB [ \-user
.IR username ]
.I file
\&...
.ad
'\" <</usage>>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Upload-presets
connects to a GMA server and uploads the die-roll
presets from one or more files, so they are stored
in the server for use during game play.
.LP
The files must be in the format documented by
.BR gma-dice (5),
in either format version 1 or 2.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options control the action of
.BR upload-presets .
'\" <<list>>
.TP
.BI "\-endpoint \fR[\fP" hostname \fR]\fP: port
Connect to the server at the specified TCP port.
.TP
.BI "\-for " username
Store the presets for
.I username
instead of the user you are logged in as.
.TP
.BI "\-pass " password
Log in to the server with the specified
.I password
.TP
.B \-replace
Replace the user's entire set of presets with the uploaded data. By
default the uploaded presets will be added to any that already exist
for that user.
.TP
.BI "\-user " username
Log in to the server with the specified
.I username
(default
.RB \*(lq GM \*(rq).
'\" <</>>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR gma (6),
.BR gma-mapper (5),
.BR gma-mapper (6),
.BR gma-go-server (6).
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Part of the GMA software suite, copyright \(co 1992\-2026 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under BSD-3-Clause License. \"@m(c)@