'\" <<ital-is-var>>
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TH GMA-GO-IMAGE-AUDIT 6 "Go-GMA 5.24.0" 25-Jul-2024 "Games" \" @@mp@@
.SH NAME
gma go image-audit \- GMA server image accuracy audit
.SH SYNOPSIS
'\" <<usage>>
.LP
.na
.RB [ gma
.BR go ]
.B image-audit
.RB [ \-delete ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-list ]
.B \-sqlite
.I path
.B \-webroot
.I path
.ad
'\" <</usage>>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Image-audit 
is run on a system which hosts both a GMA server and the web server
which offers the map image tiles to mapper clients (or at least has filesystem
access to those files).
.LP
It checks for any files in the server's database (which means they will be offered
by the server to any clients asking about those images) which do not have actual
image files being served for them.
.LP
It is important that the server doesn't advertise images to any mapper clients which
don't actually exist on the server. This will cause the mappers to report errors
when the download of the images fail, and eventually the server may kick them off
when their repeated requests for the same image files is interpreted as a DoS attack.
.LP
'\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "N.B."
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
The
.B image-audit
program can't check for, or correct, everything that could go wrong. For example,
it will be satisfied if any image file exists to satisfy requests for the corresponding
database entry. However, it does not check to ensure that this image file is available in
all (or any) specific graphic format (e.g., GIF or PNG) that your map clients will request.
You must still make sure the files are provided in all formats your clients care about.
.LP
Also, in the case of animated images, no check is made that all expected frames are available
or that any individual frame files exist; just that there is some image file at the advertised
location.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The command-line options described below 
may be
introduced with either one or two hyphens (e.g.,
.B \-delete
or
.BR \-\-delete ).
Options which take parameter values may have the value separated
from the option name by a space or an equals sign (e.g.,
.B \-sqlite=mygame.db
or
.BR "\-sqlite mygame.db" ),
except for boolean flags which may be given
alone (e.g.,
.BR \-delete )
to indicate that the option is set to \*(lqtrue\*(rq or may be given
an explicit value which must be attached to the option with an
equals sign (e.g.,
.B \-delete=true
or
.BR \-delete=false ).
'\" <<list>>
.TP 8
.B \-delete
When images are defined in the server's database but no corresponding image file
is actually found, actually delete the image's definition from the server's database
file so it won't continue to tell clients that it knows their location. If you update
the database later (say, by loading a map file which defines images), be sure the web
server actually has those files available for download at that point.
.TP
.B \-list
In addition to messages normally printed about missing files or removed database entries,
this option causes
.B image-audit
to name all the files that don't seem to be in the right place or have names not conforming
to the expected format (as opposed to just reporting how many of them were found), and to
list all known files (whether mentioned in the database or discovered in the web server's
GMA image directory tree), along with their status. The status is indicated by a set of
single letter flags:
.RS
'\" <<desc>>
.TP 3
.B ?
The file's type could not be determined.
.TP
.B I
This is an image file.
.TP
.B M
This is a map file.
.TP
.B c
This file is known to the server but stored by a client, not on the web server.
.TP
.B d
This file is known in the database and should be stored on the web server.
.TP
.B w
This file was found on the web server.
'\" <</>>
.RE
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.TP
.BI "\-sqlite " path
Read the file specified by
.I path
as the a sqlite database the server uses for its persistent storage
(as specified to the server program's own
.B \-sqlite
option).
.B Image-audit 
may be run while the server is also accessing this file, but note that updating the database
by either program may briefly lock the other out from accessing it. Therefore, it is best to run
.B image-audit 
when the server is shut down or at least quiescent.
.TP
.BI "\-webroot " dir
Consider all the files from dir down to be the directory structure behind what the GMA mapper client
knows as the \*(lqimage base URL\*(rq. Thus, a server image ID of 
.RB \*(lq abcdef \*(rq 
corresponds to disk file
.IB dir /a/ab/abcdef.png\fR,\fP 
et al.
'\" <</>>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR gma (6),
.BR gma-mapper (5),
.BR gma-go-server (6).
.BR gma-mapper (6),
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH BUGS
.LP
There are more checks that
.B image-audit
could make to do more to evaluate the integrity of the server's image storage,
but this is a first start.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Part of the GMA software suite, copyright \(co 1992\-2024 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under BSD-3-Clause License. \"@m(c)@