'\" <<ital-is-var>>
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TH GMA-GO-MARKUP 6 "Go-GMA 5.22.0-alpha.0" 14-Jun-2024 "Games" \" @@mp@@
.SH NAME
gma go markup \- Render GMA markup text into plain text, PostScript, or HTML (Go version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
'\" <<usage>>
.na
(If using the full GMA tool suite)
.br
.B gma 
.B go
.B markup
[options as described below...]
.LP
(otherwise)
.br
.B markup
.B \-help
.br
.B markup
.RB [ \-html ]
.RB [ \-preamble ]
.RB [ \-ps ]
.RB [ \-syntax ]
.B <
.I input
.B >
.I output
.ad
'\" <</usage>>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
GMA uses a simple markup syntax described in
.BR gma-markup (7)
for free-form text content. The
.B gma
.B go
.B markup
program documented here is a standalone utility to render
text in this format into various output forms.
.LP
In normal operation,
.B markup
acts as a filter, converting the data sent to its standard input
to its standard output.
.LP
Note that there is a version of this utility that appears in both the
Python-based GMA Core (invoked as
.B gma
.BR markup )
and in the Go-GMA project (invoked as
.B gma
.B go
.BR markup ).
They serve the same function, but each uses the GMA markup implementation
in their respective languages.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options control the behavior of this program.
'\" <<list>>
.TP 12
.B \-help
Print a summary of the command-line usage and exit.
.TP
.B \-html
Render the output as HTML instead of the default plain text.
.TP
.B \-preamble
Print the GMA PostScript preamble before printing anything else.
.TP
.BR \-ps
Render the output as PostScript instead of the default plain text.
This isn't sufficient for use on a PostScript device without some
up-front initialization and inclusion of GMA's usual PostScript
preamble, but where free-form markup-formatted text would appear
in the PostScript document generated by GMA, this is the content
that would be used there.
.TP
.B \-syntax
Instead of reading standard input, render a description of the markup syntax
as expected by this program.
'\" <</>>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR gma (6),
.BR gma-go-markup (6),
.BR gma-markup (7),
.BR gma-preamble (7).
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Part of the GMA software suite, copyright \(co 1992\-2024 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under BSD-3-Clause License. \"@m(c)@