.\" vim:set syntax=nroff:
'\" <<ital-is-var>>
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TH GMA-GO-DOWNLOAD-PRESETS 6 "Go-GMA 5.33.0" 27-Feb-2026 "Games" \" @@mp@@
.SH NAME
gma go download-presets \- Download die-roll presets from a GMA server
.SH SYNOPSIS
'\" <<usage>>
.LP
(If using the full GMA core tool suite)
.LP
.na
.B gma
.B go
.B download\-presets
.RI [ args
\&...]
.ad
.LP
(Otherwise)
.LP
.na
.B download\-presets
.B \-endpoint
.RI [ hostname ]\fB:\fP port
.RB [ \-for
.IR username ]
.RB [ \-global ]
.RB [ \-output
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-pass
.IR password ]
.RB [ \-user
.IR username ]
.I file
\&...
.ad
'\" <</usage>>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Download-presets
connects to a GMA server and retrieves the die-roll
presets stored there for the logged-in user or the one
named by the
.B \-for
option.
The die-roll preset data are then stored locally
in the 
format documented by
.BR gma-dice (5).
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options control the action of
.BR download-presets .
'\" <<list>>
.TP
.BI "\-endpoint \fR[\fP" hostname \fR]\fP: port
Connect to the server at the specified TCP port.
.TP
.BI "\-for " username
Retrieve the presets for
.I username
instead of the user you are logged in as.
.TP
.B \-global
Retrieve only the system-wide global presets.
.TP
.BI "\-output " path
Store the preset data in the named file.
.TP
.BI "\-pass " password
Log in to the server with the specified
.I password
.TP
.BI "\-user " username
Log in to the server with the specified
.I username
(default
.RB \*(lq GM \*(rq).
'\" <</>>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR gma (6),
.BR gma-mapper (5),
.BR gma-mapper (6),
.BR gma-go-upload-presets (6).
.BR gma-go-server (6).
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Part of the GMA software suite, copyright \(co 1992\-2026 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under BSD-3-Clause License. \"@m(c)@
