'\" <<ital-is-var>>
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TH GMA-GO-SESSION-STATS 6 "Go-GMA 5.27.1" 24-Apr-2025 "Games" \" @@mp@@
.SH NAME
gma go session-stats \- Generate web forum summaries of game sessions
.SH SYNOPSIS
'\" <<usage>>
.LP
(If using the full GMA core tool suite)
.LP
.na
.B gma
.B go
.B session-stats
[options as described below...]
.ad
.LP
(Otherwise)
.LP
.na
.B session-stats
.B \-h
.LP
.B session-stats
.B \-help
.LP
.B session-stats
.RB [ \-r ]
.B \-s
.I inputfile
.LP
.B session-stats
.B \-v
.I inputfile
.ad
'\" <</usage>>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
When completing a game session that is part of a larger overall
campaign, the GM can collect some basic statistics about the game
session in a JSON-formatted data file. This has the overall format:
.LP
'\" <<TeX>>
'\"
'\"\smallskip
'\"
'\"\noindent\begin{Coding}%
'\"|{"game_sessions": [|\\
'\"|   |\Var*{each game session described in a list here\dots}\\
'\"|]}|
'\"\end{Coding}
.na
.nf
.B "{\[dq]game_sessions\[dq]: ["
.I "\ \ \ each game session described in a list here..."
.B "]}"
.fi
.ad
'\" <</TeX>>
.LP
Each game session is described by a JSON object in the form
.LP
'\" <<TeX>>
'\"
'\"\smallskip
'\"
'\"\noindent\begin{Coding}%
'\"|{|\\
'\"|   "date": "18-Feb-2023",|\\
'\"|   "video": "ABCDEFGHIJKL",|\\
'\"|   "duration": "5h56m34s",|\\
'\"|   "title": "The Plot Thickens...",|\\
'\"|   "world_dates": "Desnus 4, 4722",|\\
'\"|   "book": 1,|\\
'\"|   "url": "https://forum.example.org/games/1.html",|\\
'\"|   "synopsis": "The party stumbles upon a dark hidden secret."|\\
'\"|}|
'\"\end{Coding}
.na
.nf
.B "\ \ \ {"
.B "\ \ \ \ \ \ \[dq]date\[dq]: \[dq]18-Feb-2023\[dq],"
.B "\ \ \ \ \ \ \[dq]video\[dq]: \[dq]ABCDEFGHIJKL\[dq],"
.B "\ \ \ \ \ \ \[dq]duration\[dq]: \[dq]5h56m34s\[dq],"
.B "\ \ \ \ \ \ \[dq]title\[dq]: \[dq]The Plot Thickens...\[dq],"
.B "\ \ \ \ \ \ \[dq]world_dates\[dq]: \[dq]Desnus 4, 4722\[dq],"
.B "\ \ \ \ \ \ \[dq]book\[dq]: 1,"
.B "\ \ \ \ \ \ \[dq]url\[dq]: \[dq]https://forum.example.org/games/1.html\[dq],"
.B "\ \ \ \ \ \ \[dq]synopsis\[dq]: \[dq]The party stumbles upon a dark hidden secret\[dq]"
.B "\ \ \ },"
.fi
.ad
'\" <</TeX>>
.LP
Note that, to be a valid JSON file, the trailing comma must be omitted from
the last game entry in the list.
.LP
The meaning of the fields are described below.
'\" <<list>>
.TP 13
.B date
The real-world date of the game session, in
.IB dd - month - yyyy
format.
.TP
.B video
If your game sessions are recorded on YouTube, the video ID (the part of the
video's URL that appears just after the
.RB \*(lq v= \*(rq
but before the next
.RB \*(lq & \*(rq)
is entered here. If you don't have a video, leave this field out.
.TP
.B duration
The total duration of the session (or of the edited video, if there is one)
in Go's duration type format.
.TP
.B title
The title by which you wish to refer to this game session.
.TP
.B world_dates
The in-game date(s) in which the events of the game session take place.
This is an arbitrary-formatted string value.
.TP
.B book
The integer book number of a multi-book campaign or Adventure Path. The
synopsis list will indicate the start of each new book in the list.
.TP
.B url
The URL to the web forum post where you have written a full summary of the
game session events.
.TP
.B synopsis
A string value which contains an HTML-formatted brief synopsis of the events
of the game session.
'\" <</>>
.LP
With this information in place,
.B session-stats
provides a way to generate two different summaries of the session information
which you can post to your game forum site: a synopsis list and a video/session
list.
.SS "Synopsis List"
.LP
By running
.B session-stats
with a
.B \-s
option, it produces on its standard output an HTML-formatted list of game
session synopses, with links to the full description entries in your forum.
The HTML output is bracked inside
.RB \*(lq [html] \*(rq
and
.RB \*(lq [/html] \*(rq
BBC tags to facilitate its use in a BBC-enabled web forum. Ignore these
tags in a pure HTML environment.
.SS "Video/Session List"
.LP
By running
.B session-stats
with a
.B \-v
option, it produces on its standard output an HTML-formatted list of game
sessions and video links.  
The HTML output is bracked inside
.RB \*(lq [html] \*(rq
and
.RB \*(lq [/html] \*(rq
BBC tags to facilitate its use in a BBC-enabled web forum. Ignore these
tags in a pure HTML environment.
.SH OPTIONS
'\" <<list>>
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-help
Print a summary of options and exit.
.TP
.B \-r
Reverse the order of the output produced by
.B \-s
so that it reads from most recent to earliest game session.
.TP
.B \-s
Produce the list of game synopses.
.TP
.B \-v
Produce the list of session video links.
'\" <</>>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR gma (6).
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH BUGS
.SH COPYRIGHT
Part of the GMA software suite, copyright \(co 1992\-2025 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under BSD-3-Clause License. \"@m(c)@