'\" <<ital-is-var>>
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TH MAP-CONSOLE 6 "Go-GMA 5.8.1" 11-Jul-2023 "Games" \" @@mp@@
.SH NAME
map-console \- GMA map service console (Go version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
'\" <<usage>>
.LP
(If using the full GMA core tool suite)
.LP
.na
.B gma
.B go
.B map-console
[options as described below...]
.ad
.LP
(Otherwise)
.LP
.na
.B map-console
.B \-h
.LP
.B map-console
.B \-help
.LP
.B map-console
.RB [ \-Dm ]
.RB [ \-C
.IR configfile ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR calendar ]
.RB [ \-H
.IR host ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR logfile ]
.RB [ \-list\-profiles ]
.RB [ \-P
.IR password ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR port ]
.RB [ \-S
.IR profile ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR user ]
.LP
.B map-console
.RB [ \-calendar
.IR calendar ]
.RB [ \-config
.IR configfile ]
.RB [ \-debug ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-host
.IR host ]
.RB [ \-list\-profiles ]
.RB [ \-log
.IR logfile ]
.RB [ \-mono ]
.RB [ \-password
.IR password ]
.RB [ \-port
.IR port ]
.RB [ \-select
.IR profile ]
.RB [ \-username
.IR user ]
.ad
'\" <</usage>>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Map-console
provides a way to interact directly with the GMA game server.
It will print any server messages it receives in a colorized
text representation. Commands typed into
.B map-console
are sent to the server as described in detail below.
.LP
This tool is designed primarily for debugging the server. Its
input and output is not designed to be user-friendly, but rather
to make it possible for someone familiar with the server's operation
and network protocol to manually manipulate it.
.LP
When
.B map-console
starts, it will look for a GMA Mapper preferences file at
.BR ~/.gma/mapper/preferences.json .
If present, that file will be loaded to obtain the connection
information. If no such file was found, it will fall back to
the legacy behavior by reading an old-style Mapper configuration
file at 
.BR ~/.gma/mapper/mapper.conf .
.LP
If an old-style configuration file is named explicitly via the
.B \-config
CLI option, it will be loaded after
.B preferences.json
(such that its settings override the preferences file's information).
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The command-line options described below have a long form
(e.g.,
.BR \-port )
and a short form
(e.g.,
.BR \-p )
which are equivalent. In either case, the option may be
introduced with either one or two hyphens (e.g.,
.B \-port
or
.BR \-\-port ).
Options which take parameter values may have the value separated
from the option name by a space or an equals sign (e.g.,
.B \-port=2323
or
.BR "\-port 2323" ), 
except for boolean flags which may be given
alone (e.g.,
.BR \-m )
to indicate that the option is set to \*(lqtrue\*(rq or may be given
an explicit value which must be attached to the option with an
equals sign (e.g.,
.B \-m=true
or
.BR \-m=false ).
.LP
You 
'\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "may not"
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
combine multiple single-letter options into a single composite
argument, (e.g., the options
.B \-r
and
.B \-m
would need to be entered as two separate options, not as
.BR \-rm ).
.LP
Any of these options will override the settings read from
.B preferences.json
or
.BR mapper.conf .
'\" <<list>>
.TP 
.BI "\-c\fR, \fP\-calendar " name
This specifies the name of the calendar system in use for the
campaign. If not specified, it defaults to
.RB \*(lq golarion \*(rq.
Normally, the server should be configured to tell all clients
(including
.BR map-client )
what calendar is in use, in which case if you also provide
this option it will override the server's advertised calendar
in favor of the one you are explicitly setting here.
.TP 
.BI "\-C\fR, \fP\-config " file
The named
.I file
is read to set the same options as documented here for command-line
parameters. The only difference is that the long name of the option
must be used with no leading hyphens, and with equals signs between
the option name and value, one option per line. For example, the file 
could contain a line reading
.RS
.LP
.B "host=example.com"
.LP
but not lines like
.LP
.B "\-host=example.com"
.br
.B "\-\-host example.com"
.br
.B "h=example.com"
.LP
Any options set on the command line override those read from
the configuration file. To set a boolean flag to be true,
simply name it on a line of the file. For example:
.LP
.B "mono"
.LP
Lines beginning with an octothorpe 
.RB (\*(lq # \*(rq)
are ignored as comments.
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-D\fR, \fP\-debug " flags
This adds debugging messages to
.BR map-console "'s"
output. The
.I flags
value is a comma-separated list of debug flag names, which
may be any of the following:
.RS
'\" <<desc>>
.TP 10
.B all
Enable all possible debugging flags.
.TP
.B none
If you want to explicitly disable debugging (e.g., if debugging
is enabled in your configuration file but you want to turn it off
via command-line option), you can specify
.B none
for the
.I flags
value to override the previous flag list and effectively disable
debugging.
If
.B none
appears in a comma-separated flag list, it cancels all the
previously-set flags, but any other flag names which occur after
it will be set.
.TP
.B auth
Authentication operations
.TP
.B binary
When printing certain values such as data transmitted over the 
network, include a hex dump of the actual binary data in addition
to other debugging messages.
.TP
.B events
Show background events such as expiring timers and received 
process signals.
.TP
.B i/o
Show input/output operations used to get data in and out of the
client.
.TP
.B messages
Show the server messages sent and received.
.TP
.B misc
Show miscellaneous debugging messages
.RE
'\" <</>>
.TP
.BI "\-H\fR, \fP\-host " host
Specifies the server's hostname.
.TP
.BI "\-l\fR, \fP\-log " file
Directs log messages (including any debugging output) to
the named
.I file
instead of the standard output. You may explicitly specify
the standard output by using a single hyphen as the file name
(e.g.,
.RB \*(lq \-log=\- \*(rq).
.TP
.B \-list\-profiles
Prints a list of all the profiles defined in the mapper preferences
and exits.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-mono
Prevent
.B map-console
from using ANSI escape codes to colorize the output. With this
flag set, only plain text output will be emitted.
.TP
.BI "\-P\fR, \fP\-password " password
If the server has authentication enabled, this specifies the
password to be sent to log in. If the GM password is given,
then the
.B map-console
user will have GM privileges on the server; otherwise normal
player privileges will be granted, as with any client.
.TP
.BI "\-p\fR, \fP\-port " port
Specifies the server's TCP port number. The GMA map server's default port, 2323, will be assumed by default.
.TP
.BI "\-S\fR, \fP\-select " profile
Use the named
.I profile
from the mapper preferences for the connection information instead
of the one currently designated as the mapper's current profile.
.TP
.BI "\-u\fR, \fP\-username " user
This specifies the user name by which the server will know you.
If you log in with the GM credentials, the server will assign
you the name
.RB \*(lq GM \*(rq
regardless of what you request here. If you don't use the GM
credentials, you may not ask for the name
.RB \*(lq GM \*(rq.
If you do not specify a username, it will default to your local
system username if possible.
'\" <</>>
.SH COMMANDS
.LP
Commands typed into the standard input of
.B map-console
are sent to the server as described here.
.LP
'\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "Obviously, this should be done with caution by someone intimately familiar with the"
.B "protocol and who understands the implications of injecting commands into the working system like this."
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.SS "Pre-Defined Commands"
.LP
The following commands are recognized with a simple interface
which should be easier to type than a full JSON string would be.
They may not suffice for every possible set of operations; they
are designed to handle common cases conveniently.
.LP
Note that the command names may be typed in either upper- or lower-case,
but the values are taken exactly as typed.
The entire input line must conform to the syntax of a Tcl
list string. This means, in a nutshell, that the command and its
arguments are separated by spaces, and that multi-word values
need to be enclosed in curly braces so they are interpreted
as a single value. Braces must be balanced. An empty string
value may be typed as
.RB \*(lq {} \*(rq.
'\" <<list>>
.TP
.BI "AI " name " " size " " file
Upload an image from a local named file, for clients to
access with the given
.I name
and zoom factor
.I size
(the latter expressed as a real number with 1.0 meaning the
normal zoom setting).
.RS
.LP
'\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "This is deprecated."
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
Instead, images should be prepared using the
.B gma
.BR rendersizes (6)
program and uploaded to the server directly.
.RE
.TP
.BI "AI? " name " " size
Ask the server and/or other connected clients if they know
where an image file with the given
.I name
and zoom factor
.I size
may be found.
.TP
.BI "AI@ " name " " size " " id
Inform the server that it should advertise the location of
a stored image file with the given
.I name
and
.I size
as the server storage name
.IR id .
(Refer to the full documentation for an explanation of what
that actually means.)
.TP
.BI "AV " label " " x " " y
Adjust the view of all clients so that grid label
.IR label ,
or if that is empty or unable to be understood, scroll so that
the display is the fraction
.I x
of the way to the right and
.I y
of the way down, where
.I x
and
.I y
are numbers ranging from 0.0 (far left or top) to 1.0 (far right
or bottom).
.TP
.BI "CC " silent? " " target
Tell the server to clear the chat history. If
.I silent?
is true, do so without announcement. The
.I target
is negative, all messages are deleted except for the
most recent
.RI \- target
messages. Otherwise, all messages with IDs less that
.I target
are deleted.
.TP
.BI "CLR " id
Remove the specified object from the map clients. The
.I id
may be an object ID number, name as known to the mapper
(e.g.,
.RB \*(lq Bob \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq goblinMimg=Goblin \*(rq),
or the values
.BR * ,
.BR E* ,
.BR M* ,
or
.BR P* ,
to remove all objects, all map elements, all monsters, or all
player tokens, respectively.
.TP
.BI "CLR@ " id
Clears all elements that are mentioned in the server-side
map file with the specified
.IR id .
.TP
.BI "CO " enabled?
Enter combat mode if
.I enabled?
is true, otherwise exit to normal play mode.
.TP
.BI "D " recipients " " rollspec " \fR[\fP" id \fR]\fP
Ask the server to roll the dice as specified in
.I rollspec
with the results being sent to the list of names in
.I recipients
(which is itself a brace-enclosed, space separated Tcl list).
The special recipient names
.B *
and
.B %
may be used to send the results to all clients, or blindly
send them only to the GM, respectively. In this case the
.B *
or
.B %
must be the only thing in the recipient list.
You may optionally provide an arbitrary
.I id
which will be sent back with the die-roll results from the server.
.TP
.BI "DD " list
Set your server-side die-roll preset list to
.IR list ,
which is a brace-enclosed list of presets, each of which
is a brace-enclosed list of three values: preset name, description, and the die-roll spec for that roll.
.TP
.BI "DD+ " list
Just like
.B DD
but adds the contents of
.I list
to your existing set of presets rather than replacing them.
.TP
.BI "DD/ " re
Delete all the die-roll presets stored for you whose names
match the regular expression
.IR re .
.TP
.BI "DR"
Request that the server send you all your die-roll presets.
.TP
.B EXIT
Exit the
.B map-console
program.
.TP
.B HELP
Prints out a command summary.
.TP
.BI "L " filename
Load the map file stored in a local file
onto all the connected map clients.
This replaces any existing elements on the map previously.
.TP
.BI "L@ " id
Load the map file stored on the server under the given
.I id
onto all the connected map clients.
This replaces any existing elements on the map previously.
.TP
.BI "M " filename
Like
.B L
but merges the contents of the map with the existing contents
of the map instead of replacing them.
.TP
.BI "M? " id
Tells clients to pre-fetch and cache a copy of the server's
map file stored under the given
.IR id .
.TP
.BI "M@ " id
Like
.B L@
but merges the map contents with the existing contents of the
map.
.TP
.BI "MARK " x " " y
Visibly mark the given
.RI ( x , y )
coordinates on the map for a second.
.TP
.BI "OA " id " " kvlist
Set one or more attributes of the object with the given
.I id
to those in
.IR kvlist .
The latter is a brace-enclosed, space-separated Tcl list
where the first value is the name of an attribute, the next
is the value for that attribute, and so on for each pair
of attribute names and values you need to change.
.TP
.BI "OA+ " id " " attribute " " list
For object attributes whose values are a list of strings,
this command adds one or more values to that object's
attribute.
.TP
.BI "OA\- " id " " attribute " " list
Like
.B OA+
but removes each of the values in
.I list
from the named attribute.
.TP
.BI "POLO"
Sends a client response to the server's 
.B MARCO
ping message. 
.B Map-client
automatically sends these every time the server pings it.
.TP
.BI "PS " id " " color " " name " " area " " size " player\fR|\fPmonster " x " " y " " reach
Place a creature token on the map.
.TP
.B QUIT
Synonymous with
.BR EXIT .
.TP
.B SYNC
Request that the server send a full dump of the game state to you.
.TP
.BI "SYNC CHAT \fR[\fP" target \fR]\fP
Request that the server send a full dump of all chat messages in its history to you.
If
.I target
is given, it limits the number of requested chat message. If it is negative, only the most recent
.RI \- target
messages are sent. Otherwise, only any messages with message IDs
greater than
.I target
are sent.
.TP
.BI "TO " recipients " " message
Send a chat
.I message
to the users named in the
.I recipients
list. The latter value may be given as described above
for the
.B D
command.
.TP
.BI "/CONN"
Request a list of all connected clients.
.TP
.B ?
Synonymous with
.BR HELP .
'\" <</>>
.SS "Generalized Command Entry"
.LP
You may also type a full command with options by typing
.RB \*(lq ! \fIcommand\fP\*(rq
followed by a number of parameters in the following forms.
The same rules apply as above, so values which contain spaces
will need to be enclosed in braces.
'\" <<list>>
.TP
.IB key = val
Include parameter
.I key
in the JSON payload for the command, with the value
.I val
as a character string.
.TP
.IB key # val
As above, but don't quote
.I val
as a string. Thus,
.I val
may be a number, 
.BR true ,
.BR false ,
or
.BR null .
.TP
.IB key : val
As
.IB key = val
except that any underscore characters in
.I val
are converted to spaces, making it unnecessary to
put braces around this parameter.
'\" <</>>
.LP
For example, typing the command:
.LP
'\" <<usage>>
.B "!d RequestID=abc123 ToAll#true RollSpec:d20+2_acid"
'\" <</usage>>
.LP
will send this command to the server:
.LP
.B "D {\[dq]RequestID\[dq]:\[dq]abc123\[dq],\[dq]ToAll\[dq]:true,\[dq]RollSpec\[dq]:\[dq]d20+2 acid\[dq]}"
.LP
The
.I command
name may be typed in any case but the parameters must be typed
exactly as expected by the server protocol.
.SS "Raw Message Entry"
.LP
Finally, it is also possible to simply type a literal string
of characters which will be sent to the server AS-IS without
further interpretation.
.LP
This is done by prefixing the string with a backquote character.
Thus, the previous server command could have been typed into
.B map-console
literally as:
.LP
'\" <<TeX>>
'\" \begin{Coding*}\begin{flushleft}
'\" \codetype{`D \{"RequestID":"abc123","ToAll":true,"RollSpec":"d20+2 acid"\}}
'\" \end{flushleft}\end{Coding*}
.B "`D {\[dq]RequestID\[dq]:\[dq]abc123\[dq],\[dq]ToAll\[dq]:true,\[dq]RollSpec\[dq]:\[dq]d20+2 acid\[dq]}"
'\" <</TeX>>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR gma (6),
.BR mapper (5),
.BR mapper (6).
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH BUGS
.LP
This program blindly assumes that the user's terminal understands ANSI
standard escape codes to produce colored text (although
the
.B \-mono
option will stop it from doing so.)
.SH COPYRGHT
Part of the GMA software suite, copyright \(co 1992\-2023 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under BSD-3-Clause License. \"@m(c)@