'\" <<ital-is-var>>
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TH ROLl 6 "Go-GMA 5.20.1" 15-May-2024 "Games" \" @@mp@@
.SH NAME
roll \- GMA die roller CLI application (Go version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
'\" <<usage>>
.LP
(If using the full GMA core tool suite)
.LP
.na
.B gma
.B go
.B roll
[options as described below...]
.ad
.LP
(Otherwise)
.LP
.na
.B roll
.B \-h
.LP
.B roll
.B \-help
.LP
.B roll
.B \-syntax
.LP
.B roll
.RB [ \-dice
.IR string ]
.RB [ \-json ]
.RB [ \-seed
.IR int ]
.ad
'\" <</usage>>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Roll
provides a command-line utility that rolls dice using
the GMA dice library without requiring a functioning
GMA game server to roll the dice for you.
.LP
It can be used interactively by users or it can be embedded
into scripts or other back-end services.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may be introduced with either one or two hyphens (e.g.,
.B \-json
or
.BR \-\-json ).
Options which take parameter values may have the value separated
from the option name by a space or an equals sign (e.g.,
.B \-seed=2323
or
.BR "\-seed 2323" ), 
except for boolean flags which may be given
alone (e.g.,
.BR \-json )
to indicate that the option is set to \*(lqtrue\*(rq or may be given
an explicit value which must be attached to the option with an
equals sign (e.g.,
.B \-json=true
or
.BR \-json=false ).
'\" <<list>>
.TP 15
.BI "\-dice " string
Specify the die-roll expression to be rolled, such as
.RB \*(lq 3d6 \*(rq.
.RS
.LP
Multiple die-roll expressions may be given as the value to this option,
separated from one another by semicolons
.RB (\*(lq ; \*(rq).
In this case each will be rolled in the sequence given. This allows a group
of die rolls to be performed from a single seed value in a single invocation
of the program.
.LP
If this is not given,
.B roll
will interactively prompt for die-roll expressions and roll
each as they're typed in. Typing a blank line repeats the
previous expression. The program will exit on EOF.
.RE
.TP
.B \-help
Print a command option summary and exit.
.TP
.B \-json
Output the results as a JSON string instead of plain text.
.TP
.BI "\-seed " int
Instead of using a random seed value, base the die roll
results on the given value. The
.I int
value is a 64-bit integer expressed in decimal digits.
.TP
.B \-syntax
Print a summary of the die-roll expression syntax and exit.
In interactive mode, this help text may be produced by
typing
.RB \*(lq help \*(rq
as the input line.
'\" <</>>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR dice (3),
.BR roll (6).
.LP
This program is analogous to, but has more features than,
the Python-based
.B gma
.B roll
program from GMA-Core.
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Part of the GMA software suite, copyright \(co 1992\-2024 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under BSD-3-Clause License. \"@m(c)@
