.\" vim:set syntax=nroff:
'\" <<ital-is-var>>
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TH SERVER 6 "Go-GMA 5.21.2" 11-Jun-2024 "Games" \" @@mp@@
.SH NAME
server \- GMA battle grid map server (Go version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
'\" <<usage>>
.LP
.na
.RB [ gma
.BR go ]
.B server
.RB [ \-cpuprofile
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-debug
.IR flags ]
.RB [ \-endpoint
.RI [ hostname ]\fB:\fP port ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-init\-file
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-log\-file
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-password\-file
.IR path ]
.B \-sqlite
.I path
.RB [ \-telemetry\-log
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-telemetry\-name
.IR string ]
.ad
'\" <</usage>>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The individual
.BR mapper (6)
clients used by players in a game may keep in contact with one another so that they all
display the same contents. A change made on one client (moving a creature token or
adding a room, say) appears on all the others. This is accomplished by starting a
.B server
process and having all of the 
.B mapper 
clients connect to it via their 
.B \-\-host
and 
.B \-\-port 
options.
.LP
Once connected, the
server
will send an initial greeting that may define a list of player character tokens
to appear on the 
.B mapper
context menus, or any other useful information the clients need to have
at startup time. It may, at the GM's option, even initialize the client to
show the full current game state.
.LP
From that point forward, the
server
relays traffic between the clients, so they communicate with each
other via the service. The server also tracks the commands it sees, so that it maintains
a notion of the current state of the game. Clients may re-sync with the server in case
they restart or otherwise miss any updates so they match the server's state.  The server
may respond directly to some client queries
'\"(e.g., 
'\".RB \*(lq AI? \*(rq)
if it knows the answer rather than referring the query to the other clients.
.LP
To guard against nuisance or malicious port scans and other superfluous connections,
the server will automatically drop
any clients which don't authenticate within a short time. (In actual production
use, we have observed some automated agents which connected and then sat idle for hours,
if we didn't terminate their connections. This prevents that.)
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The command-line options described below 
may be
introduced with either one or two hyphens (e.g.,
.B \-endpoint
or
.BR \-\-endpoint ).
Options which take parameter values may have the value separated
from the option name by a space or an equals sign (e.g.,
.B \-endpoint=:2323
or
.BR "\-endpoint :2323" ).
'\" except for boolean flags which may be given
'\" alone (e.g.,
'\" .BR \-m )
'\" to indicate that the option is set to \*(lqtrue\*(rq or may be given
'\" an explicit value which must be attached to the option with an
'\" equals sign (e.g.,
'\" .B \-m=true
'\" or
'\" .BR \-m=false ).
'\" .LP
'\" You 
'\" '\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
'\" .B "may not"
'\" '\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
'\" combine multiple single-letter options into a single composite
'\" argument, (e.g., the options
'\" .B \-r
'\" and
'\" .B \-m
'\" would need to be entered as two separate options, not as
'\" .BR \-rm ).
'\" <<list>>
.TP 8
.BI "\-cpuprofile " path
Enable CPU profiling via Go's pprof tool. Sample data will be saved to the named
.IR path .
.TP
.BI "\-debug " flags
Add debugging information to the server log. The
.I flags
value is a comma-separated list of debugging options. The following
options are available:
.RS
'\" <<desc>>
.TP 10
.B all
All possible debugging information.
.TP
.B none
No debugging information (this cancels any previously-specified debug flags, but more may
be added after this).
.TP
.B auth
Authentication operations.
.TP
.B db
Database operations.
.TP
.B events
Background events.
.TP
.B i/o
Input/output operations.
.TP
.B init
Client initialization.
.TP
.B messages
Message traffic between the server and clients.
.TP
.B misc
Miscellaneous debugging.
'\" <<New>>
.TP
.B qos
Quality of service stats (even if no action was taken).
'\" <</New>>
.TP
.B state
Changes to the game state.
.RE
'\" <</>>
.TP
.BI "\-endpoint \fR[\fP" hostname \fR]\fP: port
Accept incoming client connections on the specified
.I hostname
and TCP
.I port
number.
If
.I hostname
is omitted, connections are accepted on all the machine's network interfaces.
If the entire option
is omitted, it defaults to port 2323.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.TP
.BI "\-init\-file " path
The contents of this file are used to initialize the clients every time they connect. See the
'\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "CLIENT INITIALIZATION"
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
section below for details.
.TP
.BI "\-log\-file " path
Append a record of server actions to the specified file. If debugging is enabled, those
messages will go to the log file as well. By default, the log is printed to the standard output,
which may also be explicitly specified by a single hyphen 
.RB (\*(lq \- \*(rq)
as
.IR path .
.TP
.BI "\-password\-file " path
This enables client authentication. By default, the server will allow any client to
connect and immediately interact with it. However, if this option is given, the server
will require a valid user credential before allowing the client to operate. The contents
of the password file are stored in plaintext, one password per line. 
.RS
.LP
The first line is the general player password. Any client connecting with this credential
will be admitted with any username they request other than
.RB \*(lq GM \*(rq.
.LP
The next line, if present, gives the privileged GM password. Any client connecting with this
credential will be granted with game master privileges 
under the username
.RB \*(lq GM \*(rq.
.LP
Any subsequent lines have the format
.RI \*(lq username \fB:\fP password \*(rq.
This assigns a specific
.I password
for the given
.IR username ,
such that any client wishing to sign on with that specific username
must present this specific credential.
.LP
'\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B N.B.
This is an extremely trivial challenge-response authentication mechanism used solely to
protect a game server from revealing in-game spoilers and rejecting nuisance connections.
It should
.B not
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
be relied upon to secure any sensitive information. No passwords used here should be the
same as passwords used for anything else of consequence.
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-sqlite " path
Specifies the filename of a sqlite database the server will use to maintain persistent
state. This includes such things as stored die-roll presets, known image locations, and
the chat history. If
.I path
does not exist, a new empty database will automatically be created by the server.
.TP
.BI "\-telemetry\-log " path
If the server is configured to send telemetry metrics,
this provides the name of a file into which to write
telemetry debugging information. The default is not to write
debugging information at all. If
.I path
is a single hyphen 
.RB (\*(lq \- \*(rq),
then the log will go to the
standard output.
.TP
.BI "\-telemetry\-name " string
If the server is configured to send telemetry metrics,
this provides the name of the application for purposes
of identifying this running instance of the server. Defaults
to
.RB \*(lq gma\-server \*(rq.
'\" <</>>
.SH "CLIENT INITIALIZATION"
.LP
When a client connects, the server begins by sending a number of messages 
up front, before and/or after successfully authenticating. The initial negotiation
with the client goes through the following stages:
'\" <<desc>>
'\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.TP 15
.B Connection
The server declares the protocol version it is using.
.TP
.B Preamble
The server sends a number of messages to the client, which may include
comments, declaring party members, notice of software
updates, and campaign information.
We recommend limiting the preamble to comments.
.TP
.B Authentication
If configured to do so, the server will demand a valid
credential from the client before proceeding any further.
.TP
.B Post-auth
After successful authentication (or unconditionally if
no authentication is required), the server sends a number
of messages just as described for the preamble stage.
.TP
.B Ready
The server then signals to the client that the negotiation
is completed and the client is then free to issue any
commands to the server, and may receive any messages from
the server. (Before this point, the server won't even
consider receiving commands from the client that aren't
part of this negotiation, and won't be sending normal
traffic to the client yet.)
.TP
.B Sync
Finally, the server may send additional data to the client
(typically this is synchronization data to catch the
client up to the server's current notion of the game
state).
'\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
'\" <</>>
.LP
By default, the preamble, post-auth, and sync stages are
effectively nil. However, the presence of a client initialization
file via the
.B \-init\-file
option specifies what to send to the client during
negotiation.
.LP
Each line of the file is a server message to be sent to
the client, formatted as documented in the server protocol
specification. (I.e., a command word followed by a space and
a JSON parameter object.) Long commands may be continued
over multiple lines of the file, as long as the brace
.RB (\*(lq { \*(rq)
that begins the JSON data appears on the line with the
command name, and all subsequent lines are indented
by any amount of whitespace. The final brace
.RB (\*(lq } \*(rq)
that ends the JSON data may appear at the end of the
last line or on a line by itself (in which case it need
not be indented itself).
.LP
The commands which may appear in the initialization file
include the following:
'\" <<desc>>
.TP 11
.B //
This line is transmitted AS-IS to the client. This
command does not require JSON data to follow it. All text
from the
.RB \*(lq // \*(rq
to the end of the line are considered a comment and are
sent verbatim. This is useful to provide a human-readable
message to anyone connecting to the game port.
.RS
.LP
Clients may interpret what they see in comment messages from
the server but are not under any obligation to do so. Currently,
the following special comment is recognized by the 
.BR mapper (6)
client (at least):
'\" <<list>>
.TP
.BI "// notice: " message
If the comment begins with the string
.RB \*(lq notice: \*(rq
(not counting whitespace), then the
.I message
following it will be shown to the user. In this way, the GM or other
server administrator may communicate urgent notices to all the users
of their game server. This notice comment must appear before the
.B READY
command in the server's init file.
'\" <</>>
.RE
.TP
.B AC
Add a character to the client's quick-access context
menu. Typically this is the party of player characters.
Any JSON parameters accepted by the server
.B AC
message may be given, but for the purposes of the client
initialization, the important ones are
.BR ID ,
.BR Name ,
.BR Color ,
.BR Size ,
.BR Area ,
and
.BR CreatureType ,
providing a unique ID for the character, their name
as it appears on the map, the color of their threat
zone, creature size category, threatened area size
category, and creature type (1 for monsters or 2 for players).
.TP
.B DSM
Defines a condition status marker that may be placed
on creature tokens. This will update an existing marker
already known to the mapper, or add new ones to the set
of condition markers. The parameters are
'\" <<list>>
.RS
.TP
.B Condition
The name of the condition. While this is arbitrary,
it should be short, preferably a single word. It should
not begin with an underscore to avoid conflicts with
internal names used by the 
GMA software.
.TP
.B Shape
Describes the shape of the marker drawn over
the token. See the protocol documentation
in
.BR mapper-protocol (7).
.TP
.B Color
The color of the marker.
.TP
.B Transparent
If present and true, this means to use a semi-transparent
creature token when this condition is in effect.
.TP
.B Description
A sentence or paragraph describing the effects of
that condition.
.RE
'\" <</>>
.TP
'\" <<New>>
.B QOS
Sets quality of service limits in the server. If a client session violates any of these
limits, its session will be terminated immediately. Make sure that whatever values you
configure here are far enough out of bounds to justify ejecting the offending client.
The value for this item is a JSON object where each entry is a QoS rule to enforce,
and the corresponding value for the rule is a set of fields as described below.
If any of these rules are not included in the
.B QOS
payload, that rule will not be enforced at all.
'\" <<list>>
.RS
.TP 16
.B QueryImage
Reject clients which excessively ask for the same images after being informed of where
to find them by the server. There should be a little allowance for the client to take the time
to obtain the image, so a small number of repeated requests is ok, but a properly functioning
client should stop asking for the same image right away.
This rule's value is a JSON object with these fields:
'\" <<list>>
.RS
.TP
'\" <</ital-is-var>>
.BI "Count " (int)
The maximum number of
.B AI?
requests a client can send for the same image after it's already been answered by the server.
.TP
.BI "Window " (duration)
If this field is omitted or is blank, the client will be ejected if it ever exceeds
.B Count
requests for the same image after the server has answered it. Otherwise, this
specifies a duration in a form such as
.RB \*(lq 15m \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq 1h30m \*(rq
which indicates that in order to trigger the rule,
.B Count
repeated requests must arrive during this period of time. (The server will reset the counters
every time this much time elapses.)
.RE
'\" <</>>
.TP 
.B MessageRate
Reject clients which send more than a certain number of requests during a given window of time.
This rule's value is a JSON object with these fields:
.RS
'\" <<list>>
.TP
.BI "Count " (int)
The maximum number of messages allowed for the client to send during
a time
.B Window
before the rule is triggered.
.TP
.BI "Window " (duration)
Just as with the
.B QueryImage
rule, this specifies the time frame in which the threshold number of messages
isn't allowed to be exceeded.
'\" <</>>
.RE
.TP
.B "Log"
Enables a periodic logfile record of QoS metrics. If QoS
debugging is enabled
.RB ( \-debug
.BR qos )
or
.RB ( \-debug
.BR all ),
details about the data collected for each of the enabled rules is logged. Otherwise
a single line is logged per client connection, in the form
'\" <<ital-is-var>>
.RB \*(lq QoS
.BI img= icount ,
.BI rate= rcount / rmax \fR\*(rq,\fP
where
.I icount
is the number of different image requests currently being tracked,
.I rcount
is the number of packets received so far in the current time window, and
.I rmax
is the threshold number of packets allowed before the client is rejected.
'\" <</ital-is-var>>
'\" <<list>>
.RS
.TP
.BI "Window " (duration)
'\" <<ital-is-var>>
The time interval after which to print each log message.
.RE
.RE
'\" <</>>
'\" <</>>
.TP
.B REDIRECT
Instructs the client to use a different server for this session. This is used when
the GM wants to use an alternate server temporarily without requiring the players to
reconfigure all their clients.
The JSON payload includes the following values:
'\" <<list>>
.RS
.TP
.B Host
The host name or IP address of the server to connect to for this session.
.TP
'\" <</ital-is-var>>
.BI "Port " (int)
'\" <<ital-is-var>>
The TCP port number on which to connect to the server.
.TP
.B Reason
An explanation of why the redirect is being performed (optional).
.LP
The server will disconnect from the client immediately after issuing the
.B REDIRECT
command to it.
.RE
'\" <</>>
'\" <</New>>
.TP
.B UPDATES
Advertises to the client the version of each software
package you recommend for them to use. The JSON
data has a single parameter called
.B Packages
which is a list of objects with the following
parameters:
.RS
'\" <<list>>
.TP
.B Name
The name of the package, such as
.BR mapper ,
.BR go-gma ,
or
.BR core .
'\" <<New>>
.TP
.B MinimumVersion
If a server wishes to limit clients from this package to only those with a minimum version number
(as self-reported by the client in its
.B AUTH
message), then a
.B MinimumVersion
and
.B VersionPattern
field must be added to that package's information here. The
.B MinimumVersion
field is a string with the minimum client version allowed to be used, as a semantic version
string such as
.RB \*(lq 1.2 \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq 1.7.3 \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq 1.6-alpha.1 \*(rq,
etc. This will be matched against the value captured from the client's version number
via the
.B VersionPattern
field.
.TP
.B VersionPattern
This gives a regular expression which is matched against the
.B Client
field sent by the client as part of its
.B AUTH
message when signing on to the server. This expression MUST contain a single capturing group
which yields the client's version number to be compared against the
.B MinimumVersion
field described above.
.RS
.LP
See the
.B sample.init
file shipped with the go-gma source code for an example of this, or note that
the regular expression to match the
.BR mapper (6)
client is
.BR "\[dq]^\e\es*mapper\e\es+(\e\eS+)\[dq]" .
.LP
Note that backslashes in the regular expression need to be escaped with another
backslash (i.e.,
.BR \e\e )
to satisfy the encoding requirements for JSON.
.RE
'\" <</New>>
.TP
.B Instances
A list of available versions of the package. If multiple
versions are listed here, they should each be for a different
platform. 
Each instance value is an object with the following fields:
.RS
'\" <<desc>>
.TP 8
.B OS
The target operating system for this version of the
package. If omitted or blank, it is OS-independent.
Values are
.BR freebsd ,
.BR linux ,
.BR darwin ,
.BR windows ,
etc.
.TP
.B Arch
The target hardware architecture for this version.
Values are
.BR amd64 ,
etc.
.TP
.B Version
The recommended version you want players to use.
.TP
.B Token
If you provide a downloadable copy of the software on your server for players
to get, specify the download token here. The mapper tool currently has the
capability to self-upgrade based on this token. The mapper is configured with
the option
.BI \-\-update\-url= base
which is combined with the
.I token
value to get the filename to be downloaded from your
server. The URLs retrieved will be
.IB base / token .tar.gz
and
.IB base / token .tar.gz.sig\fR.\fP
'\" <</>>
.RE
'\" <</>>
.RE
.TP
.B WORLD
'\" <<New>>
Sends campaign information. The fields of the JSON payload include
'\" <<list>>
.RS
.TP
.B Calendar
Names the calendar in play.
.TP
.B ClientSettings
Overrides some of the server- and game-specific client preference settings.
The value is a JSON object with the following fields:
'\" <<list>>
.RS
.TP
.B MkdirPath
The path to the
.B mkdir
program on the server (used for GM uploads of mapper content to the server).
.TP
.B ImageBaseURL
The base URL from which the client will retrieve map and image files.
.TP
.B ModuleCode
The current module's ID code.
.TP
.B SCPDestination
The directory where GM uploads of mapper content should be sent to.
.TP
.B ServerHostname
The hostname (and optionally username in the form
.IB name @ host\fR)\fP
for the GM to upload mapper content to the server.
'\" <</>>
.RE
'\" <</>>
.RE
'\" <</New>>
.TP
.B AUTH
This command word (without JSON data) in the initialization
file causes the server to perform the authentication step before
continuing. Thus, it marks the end of the preamble stage. Following
lines will be sent as part of the post-auth stage.
.TP
.B READY
This command word (without JSON data) in the initialization file
causes the server to signal to the client that the negotiation is
complete and normal client/server interaction may begin. Thus
it marks the end of the post-auth stage. Anything after this 
point is for the sync stage.
.RS
.LP
In this final part of the file (after the
.B READY
command), any of the following server messages may be
included to be sent to the client:
.BR // ,
.BR AC ,
.BR AI ,
.BR AI? ,
.BR AV ,
.BR CC ,
.BR CLR ,
.BR CLR@ ,
.BR CO ,
.BR CS ,
.BR DD= ,
.BR DSM ,
.BR I ,
.BR IL ,
.BR L ,
.BR LS-ARC ,
.BR LS-CIRC ,
.BR LS-LINE ,
.BR LS-POLY ,
.BR LS-RECT ,
.BR LS-SAOE ,
.BR LS-TEXT ,
.BR LS-TILE ,
.BR MARK ,
.BR OA ,
.BR OA+ ,
.BR OA\- ,
.BR PROGRESS ,
.BR PS ,
'\" <<New>>
.BR REDIRECT ,
'\" <</New>>
.BR ROLL ,
.BR TB ,
.BR TO ,
.BR UPDATES ,
or
.BR WORLD .
(Technically, any of these commands can appear anywhere in the initialization file, but we
strongly recommend limiting commands to
.BR // ,
.BR AC ,
.BR DSM ,
'\" <<New>>
.BR REDIRECT ,
'\" <</New>>
.BR UPDATES ,
and
.BR WORLD
in all stages except the final (sync) stage.)
.RE
.TP
.B SYNC
This command word (without JSON data) in the
initialization file will cause the server to
behave as if the client sent a
.B SYNC
command to it after the negotiation is complete.
This sends the full game state to the client, so that
a newly connected mapper will display the current map
contents the other players see.
'\" <</>>
.RE
.SH SECURITY
.LP
The authentication system employed here is simplistic and not ideal for general
use, but is considered to be good enough for our purposes here, since the stakes
are so low. It is intended just to discourage cheating at the game by looking
at spoilers or direct messages intended for other users, not for any more rigorous
protection.
.LP
The challenge/response system employed by the server is designed to resist
replay attacks since it does not divulge the actual password in the clear
over the network, although other attacks such as man-in-the-middle remain
possible. This authentication mechanism is used because at this point the server
and clients do not support encrypted communications. (If this becomes supported
in the future, a more robust authentication mechanism will be possible which 
does not have the weaknesses documented here.)
.LP
The main weakness of the system is that passwords are stored in plaintext on the
server and on each client, which means it is critical to secure the password file and the system itself.
Caution your players to use a password for the mapper that is different from any other
passwords they use (which should be the password practice people observe anyway). A
breach that reveals passwords from the server's file, or the client configuration
files where passwords are stored, would then only allow an imposter
to log in to your map service, which admittedly is more of an inconvenience than a serious security issue, assuming you use your map server just for playing a game and not for
the communication of any sensitive information. 
.LP
Don't use the GMA mapper server for the communication of sensitive information. It's
part of a game. Just play a game with it.
.SH "SIGNALS"
.LP
The map service responds to the following signals while running.
These actions may not be taken immediately but should happen within a few seconds.
'\" <<desc>>
.TP 8
.B HUP
This signal terminates all existing client connections but leaves the server up and
ready to accept new incoming connections.
.TP
.B INT
Gracefully shuts down the server.
.TP
.B USR1
Causes the server to re-read its initialization file. Clients which connect after this
will see the new initialization information. This also jumps the next message ID for
chat messages and die roll results to most likely be a larger ID than other servers
(it sets the next ID to the current UNIX timestamp value, just as the server does when
it starts; this will make it ahead of other servers on the assumption that server clocks
are correct and no server will sustain a message rate of >= one message per second
since it was started).
.TP
.B USR2
This signal causes the server to dump a human-readable description of the current game state
database to the log file.
'\" <</>>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR gma (6),
.BR mapper (5),
.BR mapper (6).
.LP
The server communications protocol is definitively documented in the
.BR mapper (6)
manpage which comes with the GMA-Mapper package.
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH BUGS
.LP
If the server is not configured to require authentication, that means it won't drop
nuisance connections either, since it's accepting all connections as valid, even if
it never sends any valid data to the server.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Part of the GMA software suite, copyright \(co 1992\-2024 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under BSD-3-Clause License. \"@m(c)@